Hello, hello. Hey, Sarah. Hey, Tashar. Welcome to Talk Python To Me.
Hello.
So good to have you both on the show. You know, when I saw the Djangonauts project,
I think it was Brian Okken that had found it and started talking about it on Python Bytes initially.
I'm like, oh, that is a brilliant idea. I definitely, definitely need to talk to the people behind it.
So glad to have you both here.
You both are playing multiple roles in this whole process,
which is fantastic.
So excited to dive into the Django Nuts.
Amazing.
I actually remember when that came up
and we were all got excited and we were like,
how on earth did they find us?
That's really cool.
That entire show is just about finding stuff
that's interesting like that,
that maybe doesn't get a light shown on it.
and shining that light.
So awesome.
Happy we're able to do it.
And we'll do it a little bit more today.
We'll make it the whole topic.
How's that?
Awesome.
Yeah, indeed.
Now, before we dive into all that,
let's just start with your story.
How do you do programming?
What do you do these days?
Sarah, let's start with you.
Okay, yeah.
So I am a Django developer.
That's probably not surprising.
I've been doing that pretty much my entire developer career.
It's about five years.
And about a year, two years ago,
I started getting involved in open source contributions to Django Core.
And now I'm part of the review and triage team,
which is a fancy name for saying like active core Django contributor group or something like that.
And yeah, why I'm here today is now we've got the mentorship program that I co-organize.
Yeah, it's amazing. What kind of apps do you work on? Have you worked on in Django?
Like are you building APIs or what are you building?
Yeah, good question. So originally, it was pretty much the full stack Django experience with Django templates. And then I changed companies. And then it was with a React front end and a Django REST framework API backend, which is perhaps quite a typical setup, really.
and I've changed again.
And now I'm a developer advocate for JetBrains.
So I no longer have to maintain a web application.
So yeah, that's me.
Yeah, the dev relationship can't go down at night, right?
You're not going to get woken up on a weekend
because somebody upgraded the database
and now your app doesn't work anymore.
Now, I'm a huge fan of JetBrains and what they're doing.
That must be a fun place to work, I imagine.
Yeah, indeed.
Tushar, how about you?
Hi, everyone.
So I'm Tushar Gupta.
I'm from India.
And I have recently graduated.
I graduated in 2023.
So that was my first undergrad course.
And I currently work as a software engineer at Samagra Governance.
and where we deal with problems related to Indian governments.
So we work alongside with the Indian government and create solutions
that helps them govern better.
That's my day job.
And I've been involved with open source from my sophomore year.
That was the place like I was quite shocked seeing,
wow, there are people who are there to help you for free
and you get so high quality code reviews just for free.
so like yeah it was a full package for me and i got into some fellowships and one of the fellow
fellowships i'm not sure if you've heard of it was uh major league hacking uh they ran a fellowship
and in there i got introduced to django and to carlton as well and i think from there only
django nods got me as one of the uh contributors trying to get into the code and they reached out
for the pilot program.
So yeah, that's me.
And now I'm here.
Oh, wonderful.
So you said you just recently started working
as a software developer professionally.
Is that right?
Yeah.
How are you liking it?
I think it's pretty good.
I've been always amazed with how much I can do with my laptop.
And now that you have a job,
which also kind of lets you create some real impact,
I can literally see students in public schools using our apps, using our APIs to get better at their normal courses.
So, yeah, it's been a complete amazing experience.
Yeah, it's definitely fun.
I think the hardest part about software development is getting your first job.
And once you have a little bit of credibility and experience, then it's kind of chasing what you're interested in.
But, yeah, congratulations.
That's excellent.
Thanks.
Well, let's dive in. Let's blast off, huh? Let's blast off with the Djangonauts, right? And you really have leaned into this space and astronaut angle here. The website is django knot.space. We have navigators and captains and Djangonauts and so on.
And so, yeah, very fun, very playful, I think.
And that's, on one hand, it's like whatever, what difference does it make.
On the other, I think it makes a difference, right?
Especially for people who are getting more into programming.
Like, it should sound fun because it is fun.
But, you know, I think it just draws people in.
It certainly did me when I heard about it, like I said.
Awesome.
Yeah, so, Sarah, I'll let you introduce this whole program.
It's pretty neat.
Tell us about it.
Sure. So I guess there's been a need for more mentorship within the Django kind of open source
community for some time. And we have already participated in some other programs like the
major league hacking and google summer of code um but sometimes we don't always retain people we have
a variable success and there are still a bunch of people who appear in our like help channels
and they're always like oh i'm interested in mentorship please help me how do i get started
etc and it felt like there could be more that we could be doing there and so this topic of
we need a mentorship program, we need a mentorship program came up a number of times.
And eventually we launched Django Not Space as our answer to that kind of need.
We took heavy inspiration from the Kubernetes ladder program.
So the Kubernetes community, or it also has their own contributor mentorship program.
And that had like the concept of cohorts, for example, which we've very much borrowed and things like this.
So what we wanted to do was to design something that could be quite lightweight and sustainable as we want to respect everybody's time that's involved and kind of appreciate that the open source experience is a little bit in and out.
And that's kind of normal also.
So anyway, what we are kind of iterating on is we now have a eight week program, which
actually the next program starts on Monday.
So we're just about getting everybody excited and together for that right now.
And in the program, we have Janganauts.
This is our term for mentees, like the participants of the program.
And they will be assigned a navigator in like a team.
So there's about a team of three mentees or Djangonauts with one navigator.
The navigator is a person who has open source contributor experience and some kind of background that they can use to answer questions and all this kind of stuff.
Do they have to be a Django core developer or do you have to be even a contributor to Django?
Or do they, you know, if I would say I worked on Flask and I was really awesome at it, but I also want to help these folks over here.
I'm really good at open source, but not so much Django contributor yet.
So we have expanded the program.
So in the pilot, it was originally just Django core that we were focusing on.
And now we have navigators that have a focus on other packages.
So, for example, Tim Schilling is one of the maintainers of Django Debug Toolbar.
And Mark Walker is, I think he's the tech lead of Django CMS.
And so we are kind of incorporating that.
We want to build a contributor base to the Django ecosystem as a whole.
because all of the packages really do help and support Django.
It's part of the real core value of Django as a framework
is the other open source packages that are around it.
And who knows whether we will expand even further later on.
But I think really the thing that's key
is having a little bit of open source experience
and to be honest a lot of it is transferable so a little bit around etiquette for reviews
like don't don't at people all the time and all this kind of stuff and channel I know
things like that we then have one other role which is the captain and they add another layer of
of support to the program.
So these are, it's kind of like a supportive pastoral role
and they have more one-to-one sessions
with the Django Nuts to get to know them,
check that they're okay.
And if there was anything that kind of,
they wanted to talk about,
but they didn't feel comfortable mention it in,
in their like, in a larger group.
So we do have a Discord chat.
And we also have these weekly check-ins that they have with the navigators and the team.
But the captains one-to-one, if you've got something that you, perhaps you've been really poorly and you want to talk about that.
and anything that comes up in life that perhaps you didn't feel comfortable announcing to the world
yeah um can can come up in with your captain so they're really there to also normalize any of the
anxieties or feelings that you have around working in public because if this is the first time you're
doing that, it's also a little bit vulnerable. So yeah, also shout out to the captains.
Yeah. Awesome. I think that's a pretty powerful way to organize this, right? You've got a lot
of support. The thing that strikes me about this is it feels a little bit like a bootcamp,
right? Like a coding bootcamp. I'm going to just take the next three months off and
dive into this, but way more lightweight than that. And also, I think for other people who
might be thinking that it's worth pointing out that the goal is not to teach people how to Django,
right? Yes, 100%. Yeah. Tishar, you want to add to that as well? You're shaking your head there.
Yeah. So Django. is not a bootcamp. I think we have been getting a lot of questions around that
as well, that whether it's a bootcamp, whether someone would be taught how to Django, but it's
not like that. You can think of it as a program which gives you the right support, right people,
and right resources if you want to contribute to the core Django or the Django ecosystem.
So it kind of brings in all the right people together for a short time so that you can get
the needed liftoff that you want and get started with the Django. Yeah, so I guess the mental model
people should have is primarily the goal here is to increase the contributors to maybe Django,
maybe as you mentioned, Sarah, a little bit broader, like maybe you could contribute to
Tim's project, the Django debug toolbar, just don't leave it on in production. And
in those types of things, right? Like in the broader ecosystem, bringing people in to contribute to
Jenga more broadly. So it's specifically about creating people who make those contributions
rather than saying, I heard that programming is cool, so I'm going to quit my marketing job and do
that. Exactly. And I think a thing that, because what is success? It's such an interesting
question because we get random commits from people all the time. And really, it's not necessarily
that there aren't going to be contributors to Django. Django is quite a big package. People
will always come and suggest things and give some code. It's more also around that Django
has a community behind it and the people who stick around longer term they feel like they're part of
that community and that they're part of something a little bit bigger than just a commit in this
cold heartless code base that's somewhere and so if we can get people to feel like actually there
are a bunch of real, very helpful people who are working on Django and other packages around
it and that you could interact with these people.
And a lot of them are now my friends.
I think it kind of is trying to show that there's a lot more to it and there's this value
you can keep getting.
And hopefully then people will stick around.
i think it's more the uh if you can stick around and do sustainable contributions over a longer
period of time that builds up to something really quite huge and um yeah i think for me that i find
that really exciting yeah to me django more than almost any other sub community of a programming
world, right? Not Python itself, but, you know, versus, you know, Flask, Litestar, whatever,
other, other web frameworks, ORMs, whatever, it, it seems really to build a community around it and
not just technical excellence, right? Like Django has a lot of technical attributes that people are
attracted to. I would, a lot of the Django people I talk to are attracted because of the community
the support and and they just want to be part of that that thing that's amazing
yeah yeah i think you can see that in the uh django not program itself uh when when i first
got in i thought um like meeting all the core contributors face to face having chats with them
and seeing uh problems that they face uh managing open source and then the then their actual job and
and then the Django contributions, and now there's a program.
So I can see how much they're putting in towards maintaining and building this community
and how much they care about it.
So it gives you a good, inclusive feeling as well.
And I found it really good.
Yeah.
The only other...
I'm sorry if I'm leaving some community out that I just don't know.
But the only other part of Python that I feel really has it as nailed as that is the SciPy space.
It seems like the Jupyter and the scientific computing side,
there's kind of a big community there.
You've got NumFocus that actually funds a lot of that
specifically in that area.
But it's pretty unique.
Speaking about funding, I don't see a pricing on your page here.
Like, what's the price?
Oh, I wasn't prepared enough for this question.
Okay.
right so uh we okay if we compared ourselves to uh outreachy or google summer of code um
they do actually have a like a sponsorship where they they do pay the uh it's almost like a
scholarship that you're going to get internship almost type thing yeah exactly a little uh and
we don't have that money. We have been very generously given a grant from the Django Software
Foundation to help us grow this program. And we will be using that in different places in order
to do that. But at some point, we would like to gain sponsorship from companies. So if you're
listening and that's something that you think would be a good idea then uh you know please get in
touch with the organizers that would be awesome yeah sarah you should go on a podcast and and
let the companies know yeah that's a great idea no well i think that's awesome and it would be
really i do want to encourage companies out there listening to have connections back to django or
just want to get in front of django developers for whatever reason to do that that would be awesome
but it doesn't cost money to participate as a 100% no right no no no I mean yeah back to what
Tasha said at the very start that like he couldn't believe that you got these amazing quality like PR
reviews from all these experienced engineers for free I think open source is this incredible
resource where you can get very usable real life programming experience um ads yeah generally for
free so uh yeah we don't we don't charge people to be part of this that's awesome and you can
participate in very professional type of projects without having to go through and getting a job at
a fang company or whatever right you're just like i'm gonna be part of this GitHub project and
It looks like they have continuous integration and code reviews and these experts and so on.
It's very cool.
It's pretty magical, open source.
Tushar, so originally you were a Django not, and now you're coming back to pay it forward a little bit afterwards.
So let's start by talking about your experience going through the program.
What were you thinking when you signed up for it?
What was it and what was the day-to-day like?
And then what did you get out of it?
So I think I got pretty excited when I saw this email.
So I got an email, I think a few months back saying that there's a program that Django,
a program named DjangoNaut that is going to be started.
It's a very small program.
We are going to be in teams of three to four and whether are you interested or not.
So it was a complete yes for me that I'm totally interested.
And I reverted back to the email.
And after a few days, I got a selection email that, yeah, you are finally in.
I also shared it with some of my juniors who are also trying to contribute to Django REST frameworks, Django Stubbs, and other projects.
Here's the GitHub link of the program that is going in a pilot mode.
Just go and try out.
So I think one of the other folks named Anwen, she also got in.
He's also now joining as a captain.
and during my phase as a Django Not,
I think the best part of this program
that I've talked about a lot of times before as well,
the core difference that I saw on contributing
to different projects and joining in as Django Not
was you were actually meeting real people.
They were not just some GitHub usernames
that you know that you just talk over technically,
but you can really talk with them where they live,
how they look and just get on with what got them started with the project and how they do stuff.
So that gave me a kind of inclusivity, a sense of belonging in the community that I know people.
I know Sarah, I know Sarah Boyce, I know Rachel, I know a lot of people now, I know Tim.
And it got me, like, it gave me some kind of motivation to just be, keep, like, just be involved, irrespective of, like, not lose my motivation and just be with the program.
So during the DjangoNaut phase, I contributed, I think, a few PRs.
There's one that's on the accessibility part of Django.
I think it's in a work of progress.
So it's just getting in slowly and slowly.
There's some docs changes that I've done.
And then there's another one that is just in preview.
Another thing that I was getting out of Django Not was I know there is a focused group that is communicating to me about my PRs and how I can get better reviews.
If the reviews are getting delayed, I was getting active response on like the team is currently busy or maybe there's a holiday season going on.
there's a new uh django major release that's going on so team is not getting enough time to currently
review it so i didn't feel isolated or hosted out there but i knew like there are people who are
seeing this and the whole experience was very good uh meeting a lot of new people and it was just fun
so that's how chango not worked for me yeah excellent and you're going on to become a captain
for the next cohort, right?
So you're doing the one-on-one mentorship side of things.
Yeah.
I think I wanted to...
So I asked when the Django Note program
was about to be ended,
I asked Sarah.
There's another Sarah.
So I asked her,
is there any way I can still be around?
And can this Discord group be continued
or are we going to just shut it now
as the programmers ended?
So she told me that,
we are going to have another cohort and you can come in as a django not captain if you want and
just meet other people and i mean i mean i was like why not like yeah yeah meeting a lot of new
people and there are a lot of people from the country that i am from so that got me even more
excited that uh there were folks out there that i didn't knew of and now i know them so yeah yeah
that's excellent probably you're more likely to go to conferences where there's django people
meeting and just generally be more part of the community right not just just this yep yeah uh
yeah i completely agree i think just the part django not nailed uh completely uh like doing
one-on-ones video calls uh it just gives you some sense of belonging yeah it's great to see people
one-to-one and talk with them.
Yeah, I mean like
that you always notice it
that after a DjangoCon,
so there's DjangoCon US
and DjangoCon Europe happens pretty much
every year. We just had a DjangoCon Africa
for the first time.
But we don't have a
DjangoCon Asia or a DjangoCon
South America.
And there are regions that
don't have
this opportunity of a conference each year that the community really gets together and that you
meet people and whenever you see the conference and you see people afterwards they're buzzing
and everyone's so excited to have gotten together and to really reignite that kind of community
feeling but it's not accessible to everybody and it's really nice for us to try and recreate a
little bit, it's not the same as a DjangoCon, of course, but a little bit of that Django magic.
If we can bring a little bit of that experience to a wider group of people, I think it's really
special because I think that's really what Django is about for me.
Yeah. For every person that is pretty close or pretty accessible to a local meetup or a regional
conference, there are many, many people who work by themselves, live far from those places,
you know, and it's, these types of things are a really important connection to the community
that way.
Yeah.
All right, Sarah, what about time commitments?
What's the day-to-day look like?
12 hours a day, what do you all do?
Yeah, it's constant.
Right.
so that's one of the things we really try to design also um we have as a as a junk as a
janganaught it is self-managed and self-guided so with uh the amount of time commitment we're
saying it's maybe four hours a week but it can really vary so if you did two hours or maybe
one week you decided that you're going to spend your whole Saturday or whatever it can really
be driven by that participant we're not going to be there with a whip saying
please do more or or do less actually the do less would be a concern I mean we do want to make
sure that is this is sustainable and um if we saw people i don't know constantly working on something
without ever taking a break then that would be something that we would want the captains and the
navigator to go in and check that they're okay and that they know it's not the end of the world
and that you know they can take a break yeah that happens to me when i get really just super into
something usually some new technology i'll just working working on my take a break wow i'm hungry
oh it's because i haven't eaten for eight hours what's going on but you know to me like that's a
it's kind of cool to get lost that way but you shouldn't set it as an expectation right you're
like exactly yes exactly and people work really differently and if and if this is sustainable and
it works for you and that that's completely fine but if if it was that somebody said oh i will
probably finish this ticket in a and they said this in their weekly meeting and they thought
oh god i have to finish it by the next weekly because i said i would or something like that um
that's not what we expect and that's completely fine um so yeah maybe it's a roughly four hours
a week uh for janganauts tushar would be a better person to ask that yeah you've recently been there
how was it um i think uh when i started jango uh when i started with the program i was quite pumped
i went through all the trash tickets on the track and made a notion doc of tickets that i wanted to
take a look at and try uh but i soon got burned out then i think i had a session with lily uh i i
i told her that i'm i think i'm getting a bit burned out so she told me that you can relax a
bit and she told her way of uh contributing to jango as well so she told me that uh she
has some burst of sprints where she contributes so it's like a two prs in a month and then uh another
month there's no pr so kind of works like that but yeah um i think there's no pressure as such uh for
django not to uh like uh work um like that they have to make a pr that they have to make contributions
regularly so they be part of the program everyone can work at their own pace and it was and you can
also communicate, keep communicating with your navigators and your captains to let them know
what's working for you, what's not working for you. And I think it's a pretty chill environment
out there. So you can just figure out what works for you. So for me, I think burst of sprints work
for me. So I used to, so if I take a ticket, I make sure that I get something going on and,
and then I take some break and then I come back to Django and I keep context switching between
different open source projects. So that was how I got myself through the program. Yeah.
Excellent. Yeah. If you context switch too frequently, you kind of just never really get
going. You got to be, save a little focus and a little deep work on one thing.
Sarah, Tashar mentioned choosing tickets to contribute to, you know, one of the things
that's challenging about projects like Django or any other project that's been around that long
with that many people using it is it's really complicated.
And any part that you change can have really wide-ranging consequences, right?
You don't want to take down Instagram just for a contribution.
So what I'm getting at is it can be hard as a beginner
to find the right issues to work on.
How do you navigate that?
So it is definitely a challenge.
And it's also a challenge to answer the question
because it's really dependent on the individual
and what are your goals.
So if you want to achieve the,
I got a PR merged into Django batch, for example,
that's one potential goal.
Or perhaps you're going,
No, I want to be able to have my name again, like when I see when Django 5.1 goes out and
at the top there's like the major features and like I want to have been a part of that
or something like that.
Right.
Then it's kind of like a different dynamic to it.
And so if you were one of the individuals where you don't really mind, you just want
to contribute where you can and maybe start small,
for example, just to get something in.
Then there are different strategies to go about that.
But the best strategy, in my opinion,
is it's really common in, I would say,
open source in general, that people come along
and they submit a PR that they've done a good piece of work
And it gets a PR review.
And maybe there were a couple of things that needed changing.
And then this person, for whatever reason, they vanish.
Yeah.
And probably because of life or whatever it is.
Or they just had enough energy to do that.
And that's completely fine.
And they didn't care about it enough to do extra bits or whatever.
It could be they were trying to make Django do something.
they decided, you know what, I'm going to choose some other framework or even some other language.
And they just left and they're not going to come back and polish because you ask for reviews for
better documentation. Exactly. And for example, and you've hit the nail on the head with that,
because for Django to accept anything, it needs tests, it needs docs. And so the code itself could
be completely valid already. It could be like the perfect solution for the issue you're trying to
solved. But if it was missing the tests and the docs, it wouldn't be accepted.
And so what happens is, usually what happens is after a certain period of time, the fellows might
do a ping to say, ah, do you still want to work on this or something? And then after another period
of time, they close it because it's gone quiet, basically. And so there are a bunch of these kind
of unfinished starting points that you can swoop in, take that, and you've already got
like some code and it gives you good context with like, because sometimes people will share
a ticket and they go, I don't even know what file I should be in to start to do this work.
Whereas if you took a PR that's got some code, you know what file, what function, you know,
going on there and you've got a lot more um immediate stuff yeah yeah you're like this
basically works it needs some polish maybe a little optimization and the supporting stuff
like that's a way smaller project then imagine something you could add exactly thin air right
exactly 100 and then you can take those and you can and you can be that person that pushes
pushes it over the line and you obviously you credit the original author you can put them in the
as a co-author of the commit and thank them.
But it's a really good place to build from there
'cause then you can slowly get more context
about what does the process of doing a PR to Django
even look like because you're gonna go through the PR review
and you will learn as you do it,
you will learn how the documentation works,
you will learn how the tests work
all that kind of stuff.
There's quite a,
the contributing docs
are quite extensive and scary.
And it takes a while
to absorb all that information.
And for me personally,
I have to do it
to like really learn it.
So I would say that's,
that's how I would suggest
people get started
if that was your goal.
Yeah.
But, and this is how I got started.
but I would say it makes you like you're so scattered.
So if I was trying to gain a really good solid
understanding of Django, I have a really weird picture
that's being built that I'm only getting like one pixel
at a time in very random spots.
And so I can't-
- Maybe really deep down in the code base,
I suddenly understand that one thing over there that's really random, but then this other completely unrelated thing over here.
And so I'm not gaining like a depth of a technical understanding of one section as a whole.
So if you were someone who wanted to have that star feature that you wanted to have your name against, then really you should go and pick a section of Django.
So if you went into the ticket tracker called track, you can filter by components.
So by an area of Django.
ORM or admin or something like that, right?
Exactly like this.
Exactly like that.
and then look at just the tickets for them.
And they will be your practical way
to get that kind of information.
But there's also sometimes,
there used to be a conference called Django Under the Hood
and you might find that there was a talk about forms
or something like this that's maybe relevant
and you should build up your knowledge
in like a much longer term perspective
that you're focusing on this area.
And there might even be like other packages that are related.
So perhaps, for example, David Smith
is also a major contributor to Django
and he is coming from like a forms perspective.
And he is also a maintainer of Django Crispy Forms,
which gives him a lot of extra context
with how people use forms in Django.
And so he can look at tickets
and use that extra way in that knowledge
and his opinions whenever people are discussing things.
So that's a bit more of like a in-depth deep dive approach,
but it might not be the quickest way
for you to get your first commit.
Yeah, you want to get that first early win or whatever.
I really like the idea of reviving a stale PR.
That's pretty clever.
All right.
Tim, chilling out, the audience has a quick question for you, Tushar.
Did you ever run into a wall in the Django code base?
How did you handle that?
It's very large, very old.
So I imagine parts are hard.
I know I get stumped when I try old tickets.
Yeah.
I think one of the tickets, one of the issues that are currently out there was an accessibility ticket.
So basically we want to increase the accessibility of the Django admin.
And this is something that I also found it quite interesting because it was a very interesting problem to build a CI/CD pipeline that will take care of accessibility.
When you say accessibility, are you talking multilingual?
Are you talking screen reader?
What are you talking?
so so django uh django serves a very large diverse audience and there could be people who are disabled
there could be people who are colorblind so you have to take care of putting out a software uh
that also caters to to uh caters to the needs of those people as well so accessibility is def yeah
so access so basically there's a lot of thing you know in that uh there's a there's a specification
that's out there to define what is a good accessible software and you can have a CI/CD that
checks your project with that software with that specifications so I think that was a very open
and a ticket and I faced a very big wall on how to approach that what what all is needed there
and the thing that I did was I reached out to my navigator and captains when I was in the program
and they actually got me connected to the right people
and the right person to ping.
So the track, they assigned the right people in the track
that should have been in the ticket.
And I think someone from the Django accessibility team came in.
They gave me weekly updates on what's the current status of this ticket.
What are we planning?
They told me that this is going to be a low-chain ticket.
It will spread out over a month
because we are planning on how to do this correctly.
And I think, yeah, that's how I was able to get past that.
The ticket is still open.
There's another package that has been abandoned,
but we are trying to bring it in the Django ecosystem, I think.
So I think Mark is working on that.
So that's how I basically get past the paywall,
like the ball of getting the contribution.
And I think most of the time,
navigators were very helpful in uh because they have a lot of contribution and they also helped
me in pointing to the right uh location where should i look to so i think one of the times i
think i reached out to sarah to just know why this specific ticket was closed and i was not able to
find uh what went wrong so that this pr was reverted and she pointed out to the right uh like
the backtracking pr that you should take a look at so this is how i generally just reach out because
what the program is what.
Yeah.
That highlights a super big advantage
or benefit of it, right?
A normal contributor can't just make
all these connections or even necessarily
know who was involved in the original effort.
Why was it shut down?
Is it something the project doesn't want
or did people abandon it?
None of that is less accessible from the outside.
Yeah.
Yes, I completely agree.
Yeah. So people have been listening. Maybe they're pretty excited to be part of it.
Do you have another cohort coming along? When's the next one?
Okay. So we are just starting the first of the year. That starts on the 15th of January. So if
you wanted, if this is the first time you've heard about it, unfortunately, you're not in the...
It's too late for that one, unfortunately.
That one's pretty much left the station.
Well, I have a benefit for you with a little bit of podcasting time travel.
So this probably won't come out for six weeks.
So on the main audio, although it's already on YouTube for folks listening there.
So it'll be a little closer to the start of the one after that, if there's going to be a third.
I see. Okay, interesting.
Thank you for that tip.
Then the best place to check at any point,
if you wanted to check if there is,
if we're accepting applications for a session
is you could go to the Djanganaut space website,
and then click on sessions.
And when you click on sessions, you will see exactly.
Right now you can see that the session that we have
If you scroll a bit further down on the screen, we're sharing this session.
And you can see the latest information of the applications, when it starts, and all the details about that particular session.
And so whenever we agree to do a new session, that will appear on our website.
And there will be this apply button, essentially, when applications are open.
So in six weeks' time, that might be the case, that we are accepting new applications.
there is also a interest form that we have so again on there's yes if you click back on sessions
at the top there is a joiners secret button yeah exactly a top tip and here you can send us your
email and what what this just means is we will send you an email as soon as uh applications open
for the next session and then you will be the first to know the other thing is we're on social media
we're on x and mastodon and linkedin so uh followers on all of those places and uh we you
will we will also post there for everything when when that's um yeah definitely and i'll put those
in the podcast show notes
so people can click on them
and find all these things.
It also seems you all are on YouTube.
What happens over on YouTube?
We are on YouTube.
And amazingly, we gained some followers
before we've even really done anything.
But this is our plan.
So also in a session,
we have a couple of guest speakers
who come and the Djangonauts can,
they will usually talk about some topic
and they've got some particular experiences
that they can share and that you have a little bit of a Q&A with them.
So in the pilot session, both Marius and Natalia,
who are the two Django fellows,
they had a session with our Djangonauts.
and we record these sessions.
And what we want to do is we want to publish these on our YouTube
to make that available to everybody
because there's quite interesting information that gets shared in these talks.
And the whole aim of open source is to share information, really.
So that is the main plan for the YouTube channel.
but we're not there yet.
But maybe by the time the podcast is published,
there will be loads of videos.
You got a few weeks.
You got a few weeks to work on it.
That's cool.
So people can,
they can smash the subscribe
and crush the bell over there.
Absolutely.
Yeah, that'll be cool.
So how many people are in the next cohort?
The 2024 first cohort?
Yes, there is 18 Django Noughts.
So we've really scaled it up since the pilot.
Yeah, so that's six teams.
Whereas last time we had two teams.
So quite a few more.
Yeah, that's cool.
What's the cross team story, right?
Like I can imagine, say like some kind of startup accelerator where there's groups,
but sometimes they get together and present to each other what they're building,
what they're doing.
Is there something like that where the teams?
cross-pollinate or whatever.
Yeah.
We have, you're in the same Discord,
and we have channels that are available to everybody.
And we are trying to achieve both a community feel
and that you can work with other people.
So we do have a life channel where people share things about,
I don't know, that they went on a run.
And it's a little bit more around the humanizing individual
and all this kind of stuff.
But there are channels which are about works work, I say, but contributing specifically.
So on tickets and people can share the work that they're doing and say,
"Hey, I want some input on this or does anybody want to work together with me on that?"
And there's nothing stopping a Django not from working with another Django not who's in a different team.
the team is just a a structure to give you a a group that is manageable for for one human to look
after um and for you to have a meaningful discussion in a smaller group um you get too big
it just becomes a bunch of anonymous people that happen to be in the same program yeah yeah william
out there has an interesting question as you talk about adding more than before what are your plans
on scaling this and what do you feel are limiting factors that's a really awesome question William
so limiting factors are usually getting mentors who agree to do it at the same time
And it's interesting as to whether we continue to organize it, that it's a session that everyone is there at the same time, or whether we allow it to no longer be a single cohort and that somebody could be like, right, there's two people who are available from this date to this date, and therefore they can look after a few Django Nuts, for example.
That could be an option for us to prevent this larger cohort because it means that we're trying to get a group of, I don't know, eight volunteers who can all do this time period at the same time.
And that's a challenge. And we did struggle to, we got a reasonable amount of people raise their hands to be mentors, but we could always do with more of them.
So if anyone wants to do that, we would love to hear from you.
So that's another thing that kind of limits that scale.
And the other thing is, is we are learning the challenges as we go.
So fortunately, we haven't had any issues yet.
We have, for example, a code of conduct.
And there is a way that people could report something that we should be aware of.
And we haven't had that report yet.
Touch wood, it will never happen.
But there's some things that it will take a few iterations for us to really stress test our processes
and check that this is going to be capable of scale.
But yeah, who knows?
We're not there yet.
Well, you know, one positive feedback loop
is people like Tushar who went through it,
but now are supporting its growth, right?
Yeah, definitely.
Yeah.
And a question for you from Sarah Tushars.
I saw multiple or at least one person out in the audience
saying, hey, I'm going to be in the next cohort.
So do you have any advice as a former DjangoNaut
for new ones who are about to get started?
uh yeah i think one of the important advices would be to have a lot of fun uh you can contribute to
django but also uh you make a lot of good connections so also uh like be around in the
django discord as young jangonauts discord uh interact with people talk with each other attend
the sessions just get to know people just get to know them a lot because um that three weeks uh the
for the amount of time that you'll part of the Django Not program will be, they'll focus
on getting you left off, but you should plan on making this program hold sustainable. So
just try to be around, keep talking with different people and have fun.
Good advice. All right, let's round this out with what are the benefits for the people who
who are participating, and I suppose also navigators and captains.
One thing I see here that would be really a bonus
is just the edge it gives you in working in web development
in Python as a job opportunity going forward.
If you say, yes, I know how to do a database query
with the Django ORM, please hire me.
That's one thing.
It's another to say, I added that feature that you're excited about.
Can we talk about my position?
Okay, everyone else is off the table, as long as you're a decent fit.
That all of a sudden just puts you in a different stratosphere, I guess, sticking with a theme.
So maybe you all could speak a little bit to advantages beyond just I want to contribute to open source and have the badge or whatever it is.
Yeah, absolutely.
I think my first job was basically like no interviews, just based on my open source profile.
The company or the current company that I'm part of also have some open source products.
So I was just involved with that.
And the job was just a simple, like one-on-one kinds of conversations on whatever projects
or different open source contributions.
Hey, Tushar, it seems like you're doing this for free.
How about we pay you to do this?
Okay.
You convinced me.
Yeah.
So yeah, that's what actually happened.
So I think you get a lot of,
I mean, contributing to open source,
you get a lot of visibility.
There are a lot of people that reach out to you.
And I think the best part of it is,
as I said it before,
you just grow compoundly.
There's no stopping when you get started with this stuff.
Initially, there's a barrier that you have to push.
before you get started.
But I think Django Not will do that work for you
to help you push that initial barrier,
get the inertia moving.
And then it's all just a good walk down the path.
Yeah, and to add to that,
even beyond getting your first job
or getting your foot in the door,
or if you're with certain roles,
you might come to a point where
there's usually this learning curve, right?
Where at the start you learn loads
and then it really levels off
and you've become efficient
and you kind of know the processes
and you've been asked to make
yet another API endpoint for something.
And it's kind of fairly,
you're not learning so much
as you were in the early days.
Go with me here.
What we need is we're gonna need a grid
of the things in the database
and I need you to be able to edit in the,
Okay, like the five other ones I just bought. Got it. Okay.
Exactly. And I also get it that, you know, and companies don't necessarily want you to experiment too much because experiments are risky and all this kind of stuff.
So depending on when you work, maybe you've got lots of opportunities to learn lots of new stuff.
But some people will be in a position where actually they go, oh, I don't feel like I've learned anything this year or something like that.
And I think open source or contributed to Django particularly, like it's so big.
And there's so much there that you can really learn about if you want to.
and completely with no pressure at your own pace and with really friendly people and so there is
you know if you engage in that you know as a practice it can also give that you the joy of
programming again that you can go you know what this is a really tough problem and I can really
think about this and it's not like a problem that's screaming at me that needs to be like
fixed straight away or whatever but you know and i think yeah there's lots of those opportunities
in there too absolutely that's always a a struggle as you get to work for some company like yeah we're
not changing that that works we're not messing with that we're not ready for python 27 yet we're
still on 26 so let's just uh calm down there okay sure um i see some other people asking
is this Discord?
This is a private Discord for the cohort.
It's not something public that others can participate in.
That's true.
There is a Django Discord that is public to everybody.
And I would recommend joining there.
So please do.
And a lot of people are in both.
And if you dropped into the
Contributing Getting Started channel
or the Contributor Discussions channel
and you were to talk about tickets,
it's very likely that I and other Django contributors are going to engage with you directly.
So there's that. But the Django space discord is designed for the cohort to give people a little
bit of a smaller community feel and allow them to feel comfortable sharing the pictures of their
dogs and things like that, that when they're very new to this. So yeah, that's how it's working.
Excellent. All right, let's wrap this up really quick with just one broader thing. Maybe there's many other communities out there listening. I wish we had a not some kind of astronaut type thing for us. What advice would you give to other open source communities that maybe want to have this type of thing?
Give it a go. I really try it out. I think we're very happy for people to take, I mean, all of our documentations are on a GitHub. It's all open source. Please take it and make it your own. You can use different names and keep in touch with us and tell us what works for you and what you've changed and what's better.
And yeah, for us, we wanted to start off with something quite lightweight and basic.
And when we started, for example, we, okay, we had a name, but no one knew who we were
because we just invented it.
And for example, with Tushar, we reached out to some individuals.
So in the past, when we'd seen some people be interested, those were the first people
we contacted.
So you can start really small, really basic.
You don't have to have a launch where you're accepting applications
because when you have applications, you need to figure out
what does an application even look like and then how you can review it.
The criteria, yeah, all that.
100%.
So start small and then you can build it out in a way that works for you
and see how it goes.
All right.
Well, excellent.
I think that's probably it for all the time we have today,
but I want to congratulate you both on this really cool community you built and are building.
Final call to action.
People are excited about Django Knots.
What do you tell them?
Oh, just, yeah, followers on our social media.
And, you know, please do apply when we have sessions.
We really, really appreciate all the applications that we receive.
And mentors are always wanted and needed.
So get in touch.
yeah please
yeah of course
go to the session section
and click join us
and fill out the form
if you think you might
in the future want to
be part of it right
indeed
all right
Sarah Tushar
thank you for being on the show
and thanks for
sharing your project
it's very great
thank you Mike
thanks Mike
you bet
bye